Offering	Leaders	Description	Grade	CapacityMake your own Animation on the IPAD	Carter	" (YOU MAY NOT SIGN UP IF YOU PARTICIPATED IN THIS SESSION LAST TIME!) Students could sketch, use clay, and use objects they bring in to make their animation come to life. "	7	10Applied Physics in the Middle Ages 	Buckley	"(YOU MAY NOT SIGN UP IF YOU PARTICIPATED IN THIS SESSION BEFORE!)  During applied physics in the middle ages we will look at how Newtonian physics was put in action using wood and stone construction and how these structures shaped life in the middle ages.  We will look at armor, weapons, and the construction techniques employed in houses, bridges, cathedrals and castles built during the middle ages.  Each student will also spend part of the class helping build a golf ball flinging trebuchet.  Students will spend some time working on individual projects or lessons and some time contributing to the large construction project which is likely to take multiple ice block rotations to complete.  Once completed, students who worked on the trebuchet will have the opportunity to put it into action on the back field.	"6, 7, 8"	10Art of the Picture Book 	Billip	"Bring one of your own stories to illustrate or try your hand at one of the old favorites.  We will create a ""dummy"" and experiment with various drawing materials."	"6, 7, 8"	12Yoga with Music	Students &  Lemay	"We will learn basic fundamentals of yoga, incorporating some more advanced poses and balances over time.  The class will be set to pop music.  We would love if this class could be eight grade only, as to maintain a certain maturity to the activity.  Thanks."	8	15Chess	Klimasmith & Finkelstein	"This activity is designed for any and all students.  No prior knowledge of the rules of the game is required.  If you enjoy playing chess or simply want to learn how to play, come join us for some fun! But remember, you will be playing chess for 45 minutes every week!"	"6, 7, 8"	30Collaborative Choreography	Levy	"Does Pharrell Williams' new song ""Happy"" make you want to dance? Then this is the ICE block for you! In this session we will create a patchwork choreography; each student will be responsible for choreographing one part of the song. At the end of the session we will perform the dance as a whole, representing everyone's unique style of movement. No dance experience is required. You should be prepared to take some risks in experimenting with movements and clap your hands if you feel like happiness is the truth!"	"6, 7, 8"	15Computer Programming: Scratch 6th	Dove &  Benjamin	"(YOU MAY NOT SIGN UP IF YOU PARTICIPATED IN THIS SESSION LAST TIME!) Scratch is a programming language. It’s easy to learn, and allows you to make simple or complex videogames/animations. Come and give it a go!  "	6	20Computer Simulation Games	Yarmovsky & Ward	"Using amazing simulation technology, build the best and most profitable vacation resort you could possibly imagine (Resort Empire) or create a giant shopping mall from a vacant city lot (Shop Empire 2).  In order to make these empires grow you will have to examine demands of your clients, as well as the art of hiring and firing personnel"	"7, 8"	20Creating Digital Music	Passeri & DeChellis	(YOU MAY NOT SIGN UP IF YOU PARTICIPATED IN THIS SESSION LAST TIME!) Have fun mixing beats and creating music tracks using GarageBand and other music technology software.  No experience necessary! 	6	24Dance Club	Students & Horst	"Like to dance? Want to try? We will teach you how to dance (and you’ll have a fun time doing it.) Different dance types will be taught: hip-hop, robotics, salsa and bachata.  You should be willing to try partner dancing…"	"7, 8"	15Destination Imagination	Parent & Seymourian	"Challenge yourself to tackle a range of creative problems that require teamwork and diverse skills:  engineering, improv, brainstorming, design, music.  We will have some special guests and will also evaluate current ""real"" Lexington challenges, including planning for the new Community Center.  "	"6, 7, 8"	16Drop Everything and Read	Tanguay 	"Come to the Library Rotunda to enjoy 45 minutes of quiet reading. We'll relax in the comfy chairs, listen to classical music, and read, read, read. Together we'll compile a list of recommended reading based on books we read during our 6 weeks together."	6	20French Conversation	Goulet	"Love French?  Want to practice your conversation skills?  This small group activity will allow you to do that, in a friendly and safe environment.  (Open to students taking French only). "	8	8Funny Television Ads	Desjardins	Ever wonder how television ads are put together? Let’s take a close look together.  We will look at the humor in television ads – you will see them like you never have before!	"6, 7, 8"	12Hand Sew a T-shirt Pillow	Kirkland	"Do you like to sew?  Do you want to learn HOW to sew?  Do you have a favorite T-shirt that no longer fits?  Let’s make it into a pillow that you can use in your room!  While you are creating your pillow, you will be learning sewing basics.  You supply the T-shirt….I’ll supply the rest!"	7	10History of Television Sit-Com	Bromley & Laurenza	"(YOU MAY NOT SIGN UP IF YOU PARTICIPATED IN THIS SESSION BEFORE!) We will watch TV Situation Comedies from the last 5 decades and discuss how they reflect the social, political and technological advancements of their time. "	8	40Improv (Grades 6 and 7)	Godfrey & students	"(YOU MAY NOT SIGN UP IF YOU ARE IN AFTERSCHOOL IMPROV).  Play fun improv games, learn new improv skills, or just laugh the afternoon away with your friends. Just come ready to participate. No experience needed. No, really, like none."	"6, 7"	12Dodgeball	Corbett & Torilli	"Dodgeball Variations is a simple idea; we have a group of kids that play fun, exciting different versions of dodgeball, though slightly watered down so we have no injuries, but still just as fun, (instead of dodgeballs, foam balls, etc).  It could be led by any teacher (gym teacher is preferred) that like high-action games, and a couple of selected students could help out."	"7, 8"	20Knitting	Baecker & Jurewicz	"Join knitting ICE and learn useful skills, teach what you know, create fun things, have fun chatting, and give to people in need.  No experience required, materials provided."	"6, 7, 8"	15Latin Dance	Marrocco	"Salsa!  Merengue!  Bachata!  We will dance, watch videos of great dancers and musicians, and have lots of fun in the meantime!  If time permits, we might even have time to share other ethnic/cultural dances.  "	"6, 7, 8"	15LHS football	Ng	"You will be learning the program's offense, defense and special team drills, plays and terminology.  In adddition, we will be watching actual game film from the varsity games this year as well as college games to show how plays are executed.   We will learn how to break down game footage to see how we performed and/or our opponents games to prepare for the following week.  "	8	25MARC club	Cohen & Tesz & Sheerin	"Students inspired by the MARC assembly on bullying, cyberbullying and relational aggression or who are interested in making a positive impact on the lives of others at Diamond.  This group will focus on using student developed campaigns and other random acts of kindness (RAK) to help make Diamond Middle School a more positive place for all students.   "	"6, 7, 8"	40Math Challenge	Findell	This session is for students interested in preparing for any of the Math Team competitions and/or taking on interesting and challenging math problems.	"6, 7, 8"	30Medical Detectives	Student & Kugler	"Come read about real medical mysteries that were solved by doctors as described in the book -Eleven Blue Men, and Other Narratives of Medical Detection by Berton Roueche.  What do you do when people are turning blue, or are coming down with malaria and leprosy?  Epidemiologists are on the case!  This ice block is not for the faint of heart. "	"6, 7, 8"	12Movie Madness	D.Gallagher & Colombo	"(YOU MAY NOT SIGN UP IF YOU PARTICIPATED IN THIS SESSION BEFORE!) Lights, camera, action!  Do you like movies?  Do you like music?  Well...who doesn't?  Bring a comfy pillow and join us as we watch and explore a classic movie entitled ""The Sound of Music"".  It's filled with action, love, betrayal (gasp!), family, history and more!  Each week before viewing the movie we'll briefly discuss different aspects of the film.  Come join in on the fun!  "	"6, 7, 8"	20Orienteering	Dube & Armstrong & Coombs & Przygoda	"Orienteering will be an outdoor activity where students will learn how to shoot an azimuth, read a map and navigate terrain."	"6,7"	20Origami and Japanese Language Culturak Class	Parent & Huff & Kon	"Explore the Japanese culture and language through the art of origami- ""Paper Folding.""  (Led by a parent expert in origami). "	"6, 7, 8"	20Outdoor Photography	Mitchell	"Get outside and explore the world through digital photography!  Through discussion and analysis of pictures taken on nature walks around the school, you will learn more about composition, lighting, color, and other characteristics of quality photographs.  In the end, we will produce a group photography exhibition to show off your work.  "	8	12P90 - Lex	Hanna & D’Antuono	"Get your sweat on!  Looking for a way to get in shape for Spring sports or quality time on the beach this summer? Join P90-LEX! Be prepared for cardio-bursts, plyometrics, yoga, cirrcuit-training, stair-running and more! Serious inquiries only!"	"6, 7, 8"	20Puzzles	S. Gallagher & Murphy	Do you enjoy puzzles?  Never have enough time to do them with friends or family?  Then this is your choice!	"6, 7, 8"	20Quiet Reading 7	Vosland	Do you just love a great book? Can’t find enough time to sink into it? Come and join others who love to read for a quiet time of independent reading (your own book choice).	7	20Quiet Reading 8	Scampini	Do you just love a great book? Can’t find enough time to sink into it? Come and join others who love to read for a quiet time of independent reading (your own book choice).	8	20Sci-Fi /Fantasy Fans Club	Mullen	"Get the chance to read, discuss, draw, write, or otherwise share your interest in the Sci-Fi/Fantasy genre.  We will experience anything from fan art, fan fiction, fan movie trailers, to the original books we all love.  Depending on group interests, we can share and read new titles or well-worn favorites.  "	"6, 7, 8"	10Science Round Table	Robinson	Investigate and discuss your topics of interest in science. Each week a student will pick a topic of interest. We will search for information on the web and share our discoveries. Some topics I've heard students want to know more about:Antimatter/Dark Matter/Hadron Super Collider/String Theory/Novas and Super Novas/Black Holes…There is a universe filled with science ideas to explore.	"6, 7, 8"	15Scrabble Club	Chen & Wright	(YOU MAY NOT SIGN UP IF YOU PARTICIPATED IN THIS SESSION BEFORE!) Here is an opportunity to socialize with your peers while enriching your vocabulary skills.  We will build on your knowledge of the English-language in an entertaining way!  	"6, 7, 8"	20Scrapbooking	Parent & Radley	"Start gathering your (printed) photos.  Join us for Scrapbooking 101 - learn to save your photos for the next generation by learning the value of journaling and making a forever keepsake or two!  All tools and materials will be provided - you just need to bring your pictures, but not until the second week.  The first week we will look at samples and discuss the 2 or 3 projects along with getting acquainted with the tools.  "	"6, 7, 8"	15Scratch: Computer Programming (7th & 8th)	Student & Rodrigues 	" (YOU MAY NOT SIGN UP IF YOU PARTICIPATED IN THIS SESSION LAST TIME!) Scratch is a programming language. It’s easy to learn, and allows you to make simple or complex videogames, animations. Come and give it a go!  "	"7, 8"	20Sew Much Fun	Nappi & Jigarian & Shea	"Students will learn the basics of sewing to design and create their own apron. Materials such as buttons, pockets and patches will be added to the aprons. Each student will create and leave with a hand-crafted product. Students of all sewing abilities are encouraged to join!"	"6, 7"	15"Girls' Soccer (Grades 6, 7 and 8):"	Boudreau & O’Brien	Love soccer?  Would you like to improve your ballhandling and teamwork skills?  We will meet indoors and outdoors (as possible) to improve skills and play the game.  	"6, 7, 8"	20Strategy Games 6th	Starks & Fagan & Crowne	Like board games but find most of the boring? Let's look at and try to beat games that require real strategy to beat. We will play some more advanced board games that may pit you against other players or have all players play against the board. Come find some non-boring board games.	6	20Logic Games and Puzzles (Grade 7):	Lally	Do you like challenging your mind?  Want to try some games that are not fantasy-based or typical board games?  This would be for you!	7	10Strategy Games 8th	Schlegel & Khoury	Do you like challenging your mind? Come pit your wits against brain-teasing hurdles and tactical puzzles. Or try a game where you and your teammates try to beat a challenge posed to all of you. All experience levels are welcome.	8	16Street Law (Grade 8)	A. Wright & McClean	"Students will study a legal case, the surrounding issues, and play roles in a moot court or mock trial.  We will explore issues, develop arguments, learn about logic, and watch a little Monty Python.  "	8	20Wonder Book Club	Rogers	"If you love to read and are looking for a book with a spunky, clever, and incredibly courageous main character, then Wonder is the book for you! Come join the Wonder Book Club to discuss the ""ins and outs"" of bravery, friendship, the middle school ""jungle,"" and how to navigate through it! In addition to having ""book talks"" we'll also take part in launching ""EAKS,"" or ""Everyday Acts of Kindness,"" within Diamond Middle School.  Come see what Wonder is all about, and get ready to discover an excellent story with your peers!"	"6, 7"	15Wood Shop: Building a Birdhouse	Student & McGee	"(YOU MAY NOT SIGN UP IF YOU PARTICIPATED IN THIS SESSION LAST TIME!) Come and learn how to make a birdhouse out of wood.  You will learn some basic woodworking skills, as you construct a beautiful birdhouse all your own! "	"7, 8"	12"Work, forces, simple machines, and K'Nex "	Burgin & Wong	"Despite the title, this is not about playing with K'Nex.  We'll build and test a variety of simple machines, and explore the math and physics involved in how they make work easier."	"6, 7"	15Yoga	Timmins & Flori	"Yoga is an activity that not only strengthens the body, it also strenthens the mind and spirit.  In this class, you will refine and build upon the basic yoga poses you have already learned in English class. You will also learn some partner poses and yoga games.  In addition to that, you will be taught practices and habits that will help you to be calm (even in tough or stressful situations), boost your concentration, and increase feelings of connection and well being."	"6, 7"	20Zumba	Shand & Hancock	"Zumba, the ""feel happy"" workout that helps you to unwind after a hard day of school work and gets you ready for the next day. We stay fit by dancing! With Zumba it is OK to be yourself and dance like no one is watching! Bring a towel and lots of water."	"6, 7"	30